---
layout: default
---

# Overview

This is the homepage for our [ICLR 2022](https://iclr.cc/Conferences/2022) workshop on 'Geometrical and Topological
Representation Learning'.

## Information for participants

The workshop and the associated [Geomstats](https://geomstats.github.io/) challenge are over---a big
thank you to everyone who participated!

- Read  the [white paper](/assets/ICLR_2022_GTRL_Geomstats_Challenge.pdf) of the
  challenge! 

- Consider joining our Slack Community [Geometry and Topology in ML](https://tda-in-ml.slack.com/join/shared_invite/enQtOTIyMTIyNTYxMTM2LTA2YmQyZjVjNjgxZWYzMDUyODY5MjlhMGE3ZTI1MzE4NjI2OTY0MmUyMmQ3NGE0MTNmMzNiMTViMjM2MzE4OTc#/) to stay up-to-date with upcoming events, ask questions, and be part of a vibrant, diverse scientific community. 

# Background

Over the past two decades, high-throughput data collection technologies
have become commonplace in most fields of science and technology, and
with them an ever-increasing amount of big high dimensional data is
being generated by virtually every real-world system. While such data
systems are highly diverse in nature, the underlying data analysis and
exploration task give rise to common challenges at the core of modern
representation learning. For example, even though modern real-world data
typically have high dimensional ambient measurement spaces, they often
exhibit low dimensional intrinsic structures that can be uncovered by
geometry-oriented methods, such as the ones encountered in manifold
learning, graph signal processing, geometric deep learning, and
topological data analysis. As a result, recent years have seen
significant interest and progress in geometric and topological
approaches to representation learning, which enable tractable
exploratory analysis by domain experts who are often not
computation-oriented.  Our overarching goal in the proposed workshop is
to deepen our understanding of the challenges and opportunities in this
field, while breaking the barriers between the typically disjoint
computational approaches (or communities) that work in this field, with
emphasis on the domains of topological data analysis, graph
representation learning, and manifold learning, on which we shall
subsequently briefly comment.

# Call for Papers: Topology, Algebra, and Geometry in the Data Sciences (Special Issue of La Matematica)

This special issue will show-case work which takes concepts or tools
from the rich fields of topology, algebra, and geometry and brings them
to bear on data science problems. We expect the developed approaches to
address a specific challenge and demonstrate utility on at least one
interesting dataset. Submitted works should provide novel methodology
and insight into interesting real-world datasets but are not required to
be evaluated on conventional benchmarking datasets if these do not
adequately capture the challenge which the paper seeks to address.
Authors that have participated in the Geometrical and Topological
Representation Learning Workshop at ICLR are encouraged to submit
extended versions of their conference paper, provided there is
significant novel extension of the work and the conference paper is
appropriately cited and summarized.

See https://www.springer.com/journal/44007/updates/19962244 for more
information.
